.TH USBWS "8" "March 2015" "usbwsa" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
usbwsa \- USB/IP application side WebSocket daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usbwsa
[\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B usbwsa
runs on application side computer and services exported USB devices from
device side computer.

Devices are exported using
.B usbws connect
at device side computer.


.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
.IP
Print debugging information.
.PP

\fB\-tPORT\fR, \fB\-\-tcp\-port PORT\fR
.IP
Listen on TCP/IP port PORT. Default is 443 if --ssl option is specified, otherwise 443.
.PP

\fB\-pPATH\fR, \fB\-\-path PATH\fR
.IP
Path in URL served by daemon. Default is 'usbip'.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-iINTERVAL\fR, \fB\-\-interval INTERVAL\fR
.IP
Noncommunication time period to send ping-pong in seconds.
Default is 60. 0 denotes not to use ping-pong.
.PP

\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-ssl\fR
.IP
Enable SSL.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-cCERT-FILE\fR, \fB\-\-cert CERT-FILE\fR
.IP
Certificate file for SSL in PEM format. Default is ./cert/server.crt.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-kKEY-FILE\fR, \fB\-\-key KEY-FILE\fR
.IP
Private key file for SSL in PEM format. Default is ./cert/server.key.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-Vverification-mode\fR, \fB\-\-verification verification-mode\fR
.IP
Verification mode for SSL from 'none', 'relaxed', 'strict' or 'once'. Default is 'none'.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-rROOT-CERT-FILE\fR, \fB\-\-root ROOT-CERT-FILE\fR
.IP
Root CA certificate file for SSL in PEM format. Default is none.
.PP

\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.IP
Print the program help message and exit.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.IP
Show version.
.PP


.SH EXAMPLES

    app: - at application side computer.
    dev: - at device side computer.

    app:# usbwsa
        - Start daemon.
    dev:# usbws list
        - List local USB devices.
    dev:# usbws connect --url ws://172.4.5.6 --busid 1-2
        - Export a USB device to a remote computer.
    dev:# usbws disconnect --url ws://172.4.5.6 --busid 1-2
        - Unxport the USB device from a remote computer.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBusbws\fP\fB(8)\fB\fP
\fBusbwsd\fP\fB(8)\fB\fP

