.TH USBWS "8" "March 2015" "usbws" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
usbws \- manage USB/IP devices via WebSocket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usbws
<\fIcommand\fR> [\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
On a USB/IP device side computer,
lists local devices, makes a device importable, makes not importable,
export and unexport.
On a USB/IP application side computer,
lists importable devices from device side, import device and unimport device.
Connect and attach command will not return
and they transmit USB packets between a daemon
until disconnect or detach command is executed respectively.

.SH COMMANDS
.HP
\fBversion\fR
.IP
Show version and exit.
.PP

.HP
\fBhelp\fR
.IP
Print the program help message, or help on a specific command, and
then exit.
.PP

.HP
\fBattach\fR \-\-url <\fIurl\fR> \-\-busid <\fIbus_id\fR> [\fIoptions\fR]
.IP
Attach a importable USB device from remote computer.
.PP

.HP
\fBdetach\fR \-\-port <\fIport\fR> [\fIoptions\fR]
.IP
Detach an imported USB device.
.PP

.HP
\fBbind\fR \-\-busid <\fIbusid\fR> [\fIoptions\fR]
.IP
Make a USB device importable from remote computer.
.PP

.HP
\fBunbind\fR \-\-busid <\fIbusid\fR> [\fIoptions\fR]
.IP
Make a USB device not importable so it can be used by a local driver.
.PP

.HP
\fBlist\fR \-\-url <\fIurl\fR> [\fIoptions\fR]
.IP
List importable USB devices from a remote computer.
.PP

.HP
\fBlist\fR \-\-local [\fIoptions\fR]
.IP
List local USB devices.
.PP

.HP
\fBport\fR
.IP
List imported USB devices.
.PP


.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
.IP
Print debugging information.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-uURL\fR, \fB\-\-url URL\fR
.IP
URL served by remote usbip daemon. Scheme must be \fBws\fR or \fBwss\fR.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-xURL\fR, \fB\-\-proxy URL\fR
.IP
URL of HTTP proxy server.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-bBUS-ID\fR, \fB\-\-busid BUS-ID\fR
.IP
Bus ID of a USB device.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-oCONN-TOUT\fR, \fB\-\-timeout CONN-TIMEOUT\fR
.IP
Connect timeout in seconds. Default is 5.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-iINTERVAL\fR, \fB\-\-interval INTERVAL\fR
.IP
Noncommunication time period to send ping-pong in seconds.
Default is 60. 0 denotes not to use ping-pong.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-tPORT\fR, \fB\-\-port PORT\fR
.IP
Port number to detach.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-local\fR
.IP
List local devices.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-parsable\fR
.IP
Use parsable list format.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-cCERT-FILE\fR, \fB\-\-cert CERT-FILE\fR
.IP
Certificate file for SSL in PEM format. Default is ./cert/clinet.crt.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-kKEY-FILE\fR, \fB\-\-key KEY-FILE\fR
.IP
Private key file for SSL in PEM format. Default is ./cert/clinet.key.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-Vverification-mode\fR, \fB\-\-verification verification-mode\fR
.IP
Verification mode for SSL from 'none' or 'relaxed'. Default is 'none'.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-rROOT-CERT-FILE\fR, \fB\-\-root ROOT-CERT-FILE\fR
.IP
Root CA certificate file for SSL in PEM format. Default is none.
.PP


.SH EXAMPLES

    dev: - at device side computer.
    app: - at application side computer.

Import from application side computer.
    dev:# usbwsd
        - Start daemon.
    dev:# usbws list
        - List local USB devices.
    dev:# usbws bind --busid 1-2
        - Make a USB device importable from a remote computer.
    app:# usbws list --url ws://172.1.2.3/usbip
        - List importable USB devices from the computer.
    app:# usbws attach --url ws://172.1.2.3/usbip --busid 1-2
        - Import the remote USB device.
    app:# usbws port
        - List imported USB devices.
    app:# usbws detach --port 0
        - Detach a USB device.
    dev:# usbws unbind --busid 1-2
        - Make the USB device not importable, then release to local.

Export from device side computer.
    app:# usbwsa
        - Start daemon.
    dev:# usbws list
        - List local USB devices.
    dev:# usbws connect --url ws://172.4.5.6 --busid 1-2
        - Export a USB device to a remote computer.
    dev:# usbws disconnect --url ws://172.4.5.6 --busid 1-2
        - Unxport the USB device from a remote computer.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBusbwsd\fP\fB(8)\fB\fP
\fBusbwsa\fP\fB(8)\fB\fP
