.TH USBWS "8" "March 2015" "usbwsd" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
usbwsd \- USB/IP device side WebSocket daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usbwsd
[\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B usbwsd
runs on divice side computer and provides USB/IP application side computer
to import USB devices.

Devices have to explicitly be importable from remote computer using
.B usbip bind
before usbipd makes them available.


.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
.IP
Print debugging information.
.PP

\fB\-tPORT\fR, \fB\-\-tcp\-port PORT\fR
.IP
Listen on TCP/IP port PORT. Default is 443 if --ssl option is specified, otherwise 443.
.PP

\fB\-pPATH\fR, \fB\-\-path PATH\fR
.IP
Path in URL served by daemon. Default is 'usbip'.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-iINTERVAL\fR, \fB\-\-interval INTERVAL\fR
.IP
Noncommunication time period to send ping-pong in seconds.
Default is 60. 0 denotes not to use ping-pong.
.PP

\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-ssl\fR
.IP
Enable SSL.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-cCERT-FILE\fR, \fB\-\-cert CERT-FILE\fR
.IP
Certificate file for SSL in PEM format. Default is ./cert/server.crt.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-kKEY-FILE\fR, \fB\-\-key KEY-FILE\fR
.IP
Private key file for SSL in PEM format. Default is ./cert/server.key.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-Vverification-mode\fR, \fB\-\-verification verification-mode\fR
.IP
Verification mode for SSL from 'none', 'relaxed', 'strict' or 'once'. Default is 'none'.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-rROOT-CERT-FILE\fR, \fB\-\-root ROOT-CERT-FILE\fR
.IP
Root CA certificate file for SSL in PEM format. Default is none.
.PP

\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.IP
Print the program help message and exit.
.PP

.HP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.IP
Show version.
.PP


.SH EXAMPLES

    dev: - at device side computer.
    app: - at application side computer.

    dev:# usbwsd
        - Start daemon.
    dev:# usbws list
        - List local USB devices.
    dev:# usbws bind --busid 1-2
        - Make a USB device importable from a remote computer.
    app:# usbws list --url ws://172.1.2.3/usbip
        - List importable USB devices from the computer.
    app:# usbws attach --url ws://172.1.2.3/usbip --busid 1-2
        - Import the remote USB device.
    app:# usbws port
        - List imported USB devices.
    app:# usbws detach --port 0
        - Detach a USB device.
    dev:# usbws unbind --busid 1-2
        - Make the USB device not importable, then release to local.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBusbws\fP\fB(8)\fB\fP
\fBusbwsa\fP\fB(8)\fB\fP

